# CS 442 - Compiler Construction
## Parser

This repository contains files to be addded to your main project repository to include the Parser capabilities. The repository contains

- Parse.c
 - This is the test driver for the assignment. This driver takes one argument, the name of the source file to read. It then starts the main parse function produced by yacc/bison.

- Grammar.h
 - An include file exposing the yyparse() function generated by yacc/bison.

- Scanner.h
 - An include file exposing yylex(), yytext and yyleng provided by Flex.
 
- ParserGrammar.y
 - The yacc/bison input describing the grammar rules and actions. A starting point for this file is supplied. You will need to complete it. 

- ParserScanner.l
 - The lex/flex input describing the tokens required by the parser. A mostly empty file is supplied. You will complete this by using the RDScanner.l token definitions with the comment nesting capabilities implemented in the previous Scanner.l. 

- Makefile
 - This file has been updated to include rules for this portion of the project. 

Building ParserGrammar.o using the yacc "-d" option creates a y.tab.h file from the %token information in the yacc file. The y.tab.h file contains symbolic token names and corresponding numbers and is included in ParserScanner.l

## The Assignment

- Step 1
   - Using yacc/bison implement a parser for the same grammar used in the recursive descent assignment with three changes.
      1. remove the float literal token and option for Factor
      1. rewrite rules for Expr and Term to use left-recursion which gives left associativity for operators (e.g. Expr -> Expr AddOp Term)
      1. change Assign production to provide an opportunity to capture the left hand side identifier

      ```
      Assign : LHS ASSIGN_TOK Expr
      LHS    : IDENT_TOK
      ```
      
   - This will involve completing ParserGrammar.y and ParserScanner.l. 
   - This step should show success in parsing the first test file and an error parsing the second.
  
- Step 2
 - Add semantic actions that will print to stdout the postfix form of any expression encountered. ParserGrammar.y defines YYSTYPE (the type carried by grammar non-terminal symbols) to be "char *". This means it can carry a char pointer. Actions will either be printf statements of ``$#`` symbols or assignments to the ``$$`` symbol. Some grammar rules may not have actions.
 

 
## What To Do

- Do not fork this repository on Gitlab, instead
- On your development machine, in a location different than your assignment repository, clone this project. Your assignment repository will continue to accumulate all files for the project. 
- Copies the files from this repository to your assignment repository.
- Discard the clone of this repository.
- Implement the required capabilities. 
- When complete, "make clean" to remove object files and executables, use git to add and commit your changes and push the project back up to your repository.
- Finaly, create an issue on your repository, with me as the reporter assignee, indicating that it is ready for grading. 

